extensions/README.md, before:

Ring Extensions in C/C++
========================

The Tutorial folder contains simple examples about using C code in Ring programs

The CodeGen folder contains a tool (Written in Ring)
to generate C/C++ code that wraps C/C++ functions/classes
to be used from Ring code

The LibDepWin folder contains the libraries required to 
build Ring extensions on Microsoft Windows

The Android folder contains Ring extensions for the Android platform

The WebAssembly folder contains Ring extensions for the WebAssembly platform

The RingBeep folder contains a simple example to learn how to create an extension using the Code Generator

The RingMouseEvent folder Another simple example to learn how to create an extension

The RingWinLib folder contains simple extension that provide the RightToLeft() function

The RingInternet folder contains functions that uses the LibCurl library  

The RingCurl folder contains the Ring binding to the LibCurl library  

The RingOpenssl folder contains the Ring binding to the OpenSSL library  

The RingODBC folder contains the Ring binding to the ODBC library  

The RingMySQL folder contains the Ring binding to the MySQL library  

The RingSqlite folder contains the Ring binding to the SQLite library  

The RingPostgreSQL folder contains the Ring binding to the PostgreSQL library  

The RingQt folder contains the Ring binding to the Qt framework

The RingAllegro folder contains the Ring binding to the Allegro 
game programming library

The RingSDL folder contains the Ring binding to the LibSDL
game programming library

The RingRayLib folder contains the Ring binding to the RayLib
game programming library

The RingFreeGLUT folder contains the Ring binding to the FreeGLUT library

The RingOpenGL folder contains the Ring binding to the OpenGL library

The RingZip folder contains functions for *.zip files

The RingConsoleColors folder contains the Ring binding to the ConsoleColors Library

The RingMurmurhash folder contains hash functions

The RingLibUV folder contains the Ring binding to the LibUV library

The RingWinAPI folder contains the Ring binding to some functions in Windows API

The RingWinCREG folder contains some functions for using the Windows Registry

The RingStbImage folder contains the Ring binding to the stb_image library

The RingLibUI folder contains the Ring binding to the libui library

The RingSockets folder contains a Sockets library for network programming

The RingTilengine folder contains the Ring binding to Tilengine

The RingThreads folder contains the Ring binding to TinyCThread

The RingCJSON folder contains the Ring binding to CJSON library

The RingHTTPLib folder contains the Ring binding to CPPHTTPLib library

The RingRogueUtil folder contains the Ring binding to RogueUtil library

The RingFastPro folder contains functions for bytes/list processing

The RingNAPPGUI folder contains the Ring binding to NAPPGUI (Cross-Platform C SDK)

The RingPDFGen folder contains the Ring binding to PDFGen library

Commit message:

Update extensions/README.md - Add description for the Microcontroller folder.

extensions/README.md, after:

Ring Extensions in C/C++
========================

The Tutorial folder contains simple examples about using C code in Ring programs

The CodeGen folder contains a tool (Written in Ring)
to generate C/C++ code that wraps C/C++ functions/classes
to be used from Ring code

The LibDepWin folder contains the libraries required to 
build Ring extensions on Microsoft Windows

The Android folder contains Ring extensions for the Android platform

The WebAssembly folder contains Ring extensions for the WebAssembly platform

The Microcontroller folder contains Ring extensions for the Microcontroller devices

The RingBeep folder contains a simple example to learn how to create an extension using the Code Generator

The RingMouseEvent folder Another simple example to learn how to create an extension

The RingWinLib folder contains simple extension that provide the RightToLeft() function

The RingInternet folder contains functions that uses the LibCurl library  

The RingCurl folder contains the Ring binding to the LibCurl library  

The RingOpenssl folder contains the Ring binding to the OpenSSL library  

The RingODBC folder contains the Ring binding to the ODBC library  

The RingMySQL folder contains the Ring binding to the MySQL library  

The RingSqlite folder contains the Ring binding to the SQLite library  

The RingPostgreSQL folder contains the Ring binding to the PostgreSQL library  

The RingQt folder contains the Ring binding to the Qt framework

The RingAllegro folder contains the Ring binding to the Allegro 
game programming library

The RingSDL folder contains the Ring binding to the LibSDL
game programming library

The RingRayLib folder contains the Ring binding to the RayLib
game programming library

The RingFreeGLUT folder contains the Ring binding to the FreeGLUT library

The RingOpenGL folder contains the Ring binding to the OpenGL library

The RingZip folder contains functions for *.zip files

The RingConsoleColors folder contains the Ring binding to the ConsoleColors Library

The RingMurmurhash folder contains hash functions

The RingLibUV folder contains the Ring binding to the LibUV library

The RingWinAPI folder contains the Ring binding to some functions in Windows API

The RingWinCREG folder contains some functions for using the Windows Registry

The RingStbImage folder contains the Ring binding to the stb_image library

The RingLibUI folder contains the Ring binding to the libui library

The RingSockets folder contains a Sockets library for network programming

The RingTilengine folder contains the Ring binding to Tilengine

The RingThreads folder contains the Ring binding to TinyCThread

The RingCJSON folder contains the Ring binding to CJSON library

The RingHTTPLib folder contains the Ring binding to CPPHTTPLib library

The RingRogueUtil folder contains the Ring binding to RogueUtil library

The RingFastPro folder contains functions for bytes/list processing

The RingNAPPGUI folder contains the Ring binding to NAPPGUI (Cross-Platform C SDK)

The RingPDFGen folder contains the Ring binding to PDFGen library
